Welcome, everyone, to the Data Science Hangout.
And I know most people who are on today, you've been here before, so you kind of know the
drill.
But for anyone who's new today, this is an open space for current and aspiring data science
leaders to connect and just chat about some of the more human-centric questions around
data science leadership, but also to focus on questions that are most important to you
all.
So, there's three ways that you can ask questions.
You could just jump in live, put questions in the chat, or we also do have a Slido link
where you can ask anonymous questions, too.
And Rob will share that link in the chat in just a moment here.
But just a quick note that this session will be recorded and shared up to YouTube, so just
want to make you aware of that if you're jumping in live.
But again, feel free to ask questions anonymously, too.
I'm so happy to be joined by my co-host for today, Zac Garland, Manager of Econometrics
and Data Science at Mastercard.
And Zac, I'd love to just have you introduce yourself and maybe share a bit about the work
that you're doing on your team today.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
Hi, everyone.
My name is Zac Garland.
I'm part of the Economics Institute at Mastercard.
And I think the easiest way to kind of summarize what we do, we like building cool shit.
And I'll try to not cuss, but I wanted to make this feel very open.
I'm obviously not in a suit or anything special.
I'm kind of in what I'm in every day.
And so yeah, open questions, feel free to ask anything.
Yeah, excited to be here.
Awesome.
So while we're waiting for a few questions to come in as well, Zac, I think one of the
things that was really interesting to me chatting with you this week is really about the ways
that you make people interested in data and then the work that you're doing on your team.
And I think it'd be cool to just maybe share a few examples of some of the stuff that you're
working on.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
So I guess there's a lot of broad things that data science covers.
I think that we try to figure out how to approach it really holistically.
You know, from the point that you pull the data to transforming the data or visualizing
it and I guess some simple plots.
And then how does that eventually make its way to either a product or an output like
a report?
So one of the ways that we're constantly communicating is really a public report.
And then we have kind of our client presentations or I guess you could say stakeholder presentations
where that's really the summarized view.
In general, I mean, I think that we always try to summarize big topics in a way that
everyone can consume.
And that's my dog, Winston, by the way, for anyone that was curious.
I love the dog running up in the background.
Yeah, no, he's the big one homie.
But yeah, and I think that we try to find ways to explain it to a sixth grader, right?
I think within data science, you can get very, very in the weeds and it's all super exciting
for people that understand it.
But for someone that's not familiar with data science or how to interpret data, you almost
have to find a way to really explain it or find a way to summarize your ideas.
And so I think that that's always been kind of a driving factor for us.
And even we have this framework where it's what am I looking at and why does it matter?
And it's two very simple questions.
But I think it gets to the heart of what you're trying to do, which is show something and
then why does that matter?
And so, yeah, that's kind of a side comment, but...
Awesome.
And kind of going on that path as well, I see, Kevin, you just asked a question around
the what's your latest fun project that you've worked on?
Yeah, so I would say that it was a very fun project, but it was very, very work intensive.
So we're coming out with a small business report and the fun thing, at least from my
perspective, I like developing, I like code, and I've been learning JavaScript, trying
to find more ways to use it.
And so from my perspective, the most exciting or fun thing was I finally found a way to
have basically a static rendered R Markdown map show all of these individual city level
leaflet maps.
And so I'm talking in R, but I think that's probably acceptable here.
But it was super fun for me to figure that out and find a way to make it work.
And yeah, I think it's a very visually appealing report.
And so I think we're releasing it next Tuesday, and I can send out a link to that.
There is just a general MasterCard services.com slash Economics Institute, where you can find
like most of our public reports.
And so that's a really good place that we kind of see what's accessible or out in the
public view.
And then outside of that, I would say that we're constantly trying to focus on the business
or trying to understand where does this fit in the big picture?
How do we provide value to our clients?
How do we provide value to our stakeholders?
And so those are always really exciting.
Those are more thought processes or how do we think about this?
How do we think about it differently?
What's bad?
What's good?
So on and so forth.
So yeah.
One question that I had for you, and if anybody else has other questions you want to ask live,
feel free to jump in.
But I know MasterCard being such a huge company, I was curious how you go about like showing
the value of open source and explaining to maybe other stakeholders the importance of
open source?
Yeah, no, absolutely.
So I think when I think about open source, I mean, I'm in love with open source.
I think there's a lot of value in sharing code and using code, debugging code, and having
that all available.
And so I mean, one of the reasons why I'm such a RStudio supporter or advocate is all
of the packages were built for some reason, and they all more or less speak together.
They talk to each other.
They have the ability to integrate functions with one another.
And I think when you start to scratch, which is really what I joined shortly after the
group was started, and there wasn't any paved pathway or any determined, this is what we
have to do.
And so when you start from scratch like that, it offers the ability to really design a full
framework or a entire system or entire portal, however you want to kind of describe it.
But it makes it interesting when you start doing that to see how much you're leveraging
open source, because it's probably a lot.
And that's always been kind of my view that many companies are seeing the end result of
open source.
But I think the conversation really has started to turn more towards how do we start to be
an active member?
How do we start to think about what we need to keep very secure and I guess behind some
form of authentication?
And then how do we also start to generate new ideas with open source?
Or how do we start to partner with them to take on a big project?
Or if we have an idea, how do we start to think about what can be open source versus
what couldn't be?
And I think the easiest intro to that is talking through inner source.
So how do we share within the company first?
And how do we start to approach, you know, broad frameworks or, you know, building out
all of these different components?
And so I think the inner source conversation is an easier one to approach or get into.
But I think eventually that really transitions into how do we talk about open source?
How do we, you know, view open source?
And how do we really collaborate and contribute?
That's one of the first times I myself have heard the like inner source and open source
conversation and was just curious if others from the group as well have talked about it
that way or thought about it that way with leadership.
We've talked about it and implemented certain things, but I like having the term that
specifically identifies what you're saying.
I'm going to totally take your term.
Sure.
What is worth is not my term.
I don't remember where I read it, but I was like, yes, that's exactly it.
Yeah.
I'm trying to thank you for sharing it.
Of course.
I like that.
Daniel, I see that you asked the question in the chat and wanted to pass the mic over
to you to have you ask that live.
Sure, sure.
So basically, my question was just if you could talk a little bit about kind of like
the idea generation and idea refinement process to kind of get to things that you actually
want your team to work on in the sense that like, I think a common dilemma is that like
the I just use business.
It's kind of like the non-tech folks, but like the business folks kind of know a lot
about their individual problem areas, but don't know about the tech side and the tech
side obviously knows the tech side, but not the business side.
And so you can get ideas from either or, but like how you go about kind of getting
this from the larger number of like potential projects to the ones that like you actually
have your team working on.
Yeah, no, I think that that's a great question.
I would say that our team is constantly generating ideas.
And so I would say that we have a very almost open board when it comes to new ideas or doing
new things.
And I think we're very quick to drop something that we thought was interesting, but then
turns out it would take too much or the data would be too hard to pull, or there's something
that causes us to kind of change paths.
And then when we find something that's really good, I would say that we invest in it and
we double down on it.
And I like that approach because it's almost an open collaboration between teams.
Like how do we come up with the best ideas?
How do we move on from bad ideas quickly?
And then how do we really hone in on what's good?
And so I think it works well.
The hard part about it is sometimes managing a lot of things going on at once.
I think for anyone that codes or is in data science, they know how intense some of the
projects can get.
And so I think managing expectations and trying to communicate requirements or needs is super
important.
But generally, if you have good ideas or you can constantly come up with new ones and find
a way to really communicate them, it makes for a fun environment.
Can I just ask one quick follow-up to that based on part of what you were saying?
I like the idea of being able to pivot quickly and doubling down on the things that are worth
doubling down on.
Do you ever get pushback when you're dropping some of the stuff that is no longer seen as
important?
And how do you deal with that?
Yeah.
I mean, there's always going to be pushback from some area where there's so many people
to please and there's so much that is in the realm of possibilities or opportunities.
And I think managing expectations and really just trying to communicate is super, super
important.
And I think that that's where sometimes you get into trouble is not communicating needs
or not finding a way to really communicate so that someone else has understanding.
And yeah.
So, I mean, the short answer is there's no perfect solution and there's always going
to be someone that wants to go one way and you want the other.
But the more that you can kind of be confident in what you're planning to do or want to do
and then really just doing it, it makes it a lot easier to kind of come back with, well,
we didn't get this done, but here's what we got done.
And things like that are helpful.
Do you have any tips on communicating those expectations?
I almost want to say, I'll let you know when I find them.
But I would say, you know, really just going back to kind of be, how do we explain this
to someone that doesn't understand it?
And the best way to do that, in my opinion, is kind of treat it like you're explaining
it to a six-year-old.
How do you explain the big picture?
What's the goal?
Why does it matter?
What does it require?
And not getting too in the weeds of the details, I guess.
I think anytime that you approach data science, you're always going to find people that really
don't understand it or don't understand what's involved with the code or how it needs to
scale.
And so the more that you can kind of bring it to a mutual understanding or common ground,
that makes it easier.
But it's certainly a topic that I think over time will get better.
I think data fluency is something that will improve in the future.
I think more and more people will code.
I would love to see it.
I guess from my perspective, I'm a self-taught coder.
And so I think there's so much great material out in open source, whether that's books or
videos, webinars, packages.
All of it really comes together to create a more open environment where that understanding
starts to bridge.
But I think we're kind of early in the game.
I think that data science is relatively new, even though it's super, super old.
But the concept of how much data is becoming available and how much data is being generated
really opens up that door for people to start having that conversation.
Thank you.
Tatiana, I see you asked a question in the chat around a framework.
Would you want to introduce yourself and jump in and ask that question?
Sure.
Well, first of all, thank you so much for organizing.
This is great.
I thank Zachary for sharing your knowledge so generously.
This is appreciated.
I got some online certifications in data science.
Obviously, I'm not a super big expert in the subject, and I'm willing to learn.
I'm currently working as a business intelligence analyst.
And I have a question about frameworks that you use when approaching a new topic, from
how you manage expectations to how you decide which project, in your words, is good or bad.
Do you have specific APIs that you go to measure your new project against?
Do you have specific steps that you go from, I don't know, from deciding on whether or
not to take it on to measuring which model is best to use to maybe setting adoption targets
and making sure that the data is validated and the users are using it?
So any tips that you can give regarding that?
Yeah, no, I think that that's a great question.
And so I guess the way that I've approached projects has always been, and not always.
I wish that I had approached projects, you know, always this way.
But I always start with a package.
And the first package that I started at the Economics Institute was this package called
EI Tools.
And it's a conglomerate of many things in the tidyverse or in use this, for anyone that's
familiar with that.
But I always start with a package.
So anytime I have a new idea, I build out, you know, a simple package and then store
it, you know, everything that's related to that inside of that package.
And I think what that offers the opportunity to do is to really have organization around
all the things going on.
So if an idea gets dropped, it's not a big deal.
It's still there.
But at least it's getting to the right framework or starting to be in the right form before
you really pursue something.
And so I guess by way of example, when I was getting started, I built out this big application
and it had a ton of functionality.
And it was more or less just me learning.
But I didn't build it in a package, you know, files were hard referenced.
And there was just a million things that, you know, could have been improved if I had
come up with kind of that initial package structure.
And so I think the more that you kind of dive into projects, you start to kind of find a
flow.
And I think the package structure really works well for me.
And I would say it's not an easy thing to get through.
None of it's easy.
And it all takes a lot of time and learning, you know, trying, failing, all things that
I've done.
And so, yeah, I would say as long as you have kind of a positive mindset about it and try
to get things organized, the better off you'll be.
And then in terms of, you know, model performance and how to think about all that, I think it's
such a big topic that there's no perfect answer.
I think the more that you can focus on kind of the end output or what the value is of
what you're trying to do, the better.
And then the rest of it is kind of just details.
Thank you, Zach.
I see there's a lot of chat, a conversation going on in the chat around a specific question
too.
So, Hugh, I'd love to have you ask your question live.
Sure, and thank you, Septori and Bruno.
Those are really good thoughts, things I hadn't considered before.
I'm also mostly self-taught.
It's nice to hear that I'm not alone.
But one of the things that I know I personally struggle with is every time I pick up a new
resource or any kind of training, I'm finding things that I feel like I should have known
early on or, you know, blind spots in my knowledge.
Do you have any strategies for kind of proactively seeking those out?
Yeah, so, you know, I think it's a very individual question where I think there's plenty of ways
that people can learn.
For me, I love books and I have too many that I haven't read, too many that I buy and I'm
like, I'm gonna read it and then I just don't.
But what I like about books is if you start from the very top and you finish it, you have
so much knowledge that that author had.
And so a great example is just the data science for our book.
And it took me a long time to really get through the entire book, go through all the exercises
and to really understand the concepts.
But once I felt like I had really mastered all the concepts or really read through all
the chapters, I felt like I had almost a framework.
And same thing with the R Packages book or, you know, the Mastering Chinese book.
And there's actually this book that's called The Big Book of R.
And it's basically just links to books on different topics or different ideas, different
approaches or things that you could learn.
And so I always think that that's a really great reference.
Videos are super helpful, at least for me.
But I mean, anything, you know, training courses or, you know, in-person meetups or, and I
know we're kind of still in COVID, so maybe not in-person meetups, but things like this,
you know, how do you think about new ideas or get someone else to share ideas on code
or data science, modeling, you know, all of these different things that are available.
So, yeah, I would say that the fear of not knowing what you should have known, that's
always present.
Like, I know that there's a million things I don't know.
But I do know that there's ways to find it or to learn it.
And so as long as you kind of have a learning mindset, then, you know, it's always the best
place to start.
Thank you.
I appreciate that.
So your stack of unread books sounds like you're describing my nightstand.
I have a coffee table, and I think sometimes when people come over and, you know, they'll
see it, like right now, the book that I haven't gotten all the way through, would love to,
is this book called Full Stack D3.
And it's this gorgeous book, gorgeous cover.
And it's just this massive textbook.
And I think people always come in and they're like, you're not reading this.
And I'm like, yeah, no, I'm not.
But I'm trying to, you know, I'm trying to, so.
The question is, is your nightstand and coffee table made of these books?
I do like woodworking.
So I actually built like my record stand, but how to make anything out of books.
That's a new idea.
So maybe I'll have to think about that.
I see there's a few helpful books that people are sharing in the chat window as well.
So feel free to share any others there for anyone listening in too.
There's a few anonymous questions coming in too.
So I want to make sure I ask a few of those.
And the first one was, how do you communicate your results?
Do you use the open source solution, enterprise, cloud or something else?
Yeah, so I think that that's a great, a great question.
So I think when you're developing on your own, you have open source to leverage and really
constantly evolving technology.
And I think when you're in a company, the thing that I didn't understand before was really,
you know, there are predetermined systems or predetermined technology solutions that you
kind of have to start with where, you know, even if there's a better solution out there,
what's available is kind of what you get.
And so I think there's almost this balance between what do we have access to today and
what do we really want to have access to tomorrow?
You know, and how do we start to communicate where these different technologies come into
place or what that would enable you to do?
And I think that's a really good question.
Enable you to do.
And I think, you know, developing on your own, I would always urge people to constantly
push new technologies and to find ways to really utilize them.
And I actually, I saw this PDF where it went over the data landscape or all of the different
technologies that are going on in the world.
And there's so much.
And so I think opportunity is there.
And you just have to find out how do we kind of handpick what's really going to work for
our group or for the company?
And then how do we start to kind of pursue it?
Yeah, hopefully that helps.
Following up on that question, I guess, if you like find a technology that you want to
pursue, what does that process look like for you or what tips you have for someone
who's trying to do that?
Yeah, absolutely.
So I think that really gets to communicating with stakeholders, right?
So finding some way to use what you have access to today to provide value and then coming
back and saying, I know that you love this, but here's what we could do with this.
And I think it's really finding ways to produce something that people really understand and
view as valuable and then showing them how they, that new technologies or additional
systems could really enhance that or improve it, scale it, and just showing them kind of
what that next step might look like.
But really just opening up the conversation, finding ways to ask questions or to say,
here's something that I think would be super valuable.
How should we approach that?
Because I think that that's also something that people should be comfortable with is
you're not always going to know how to do something like that or how to really start
asking those questions.
And so I think, you know, just starting with, hey, here's something I'm thinking through.
Here's why I think that might be valuable.
You know, how should we think about that or how could we approach that?
It's always super, super helpful.
Cool.
Thank you.
Bruno, I see you had asked a question earlier around the data that Zach works with.
Would you want to ask that question live?
Yeah, sure.
Hi.
Thanks for meeting.
I think you just muted yourself on accident.
Sorry.
There you go.
Hi, how are you doing?
Thanks for doing this.
I was just wondering at the MasterCard scale, like with many data scientists, how do you
process everything you can use?
Like you have access to so much data.
Like what resources do you use?
What challenge do you face processing all that information?
Yeah.
So, you know, I think that that's a great question.
And when it comes to data and even just our group, so our group is made up of economists
and data scientists.
And so even the economists look at as much data as they possibly can.
We were reviewing with a vendor, you know, how many different series or how many different
things we look at over a given year.
And it's a lot.
So I think the more that you can be curious about what's available or how do we find ways
to really leverage that or view it, visualize it, model it, the better off you'll be.
But there's certainly plenty of challenges along the way to actually getting data, then
going through a process of modeling or coming up with summary statistics.
And then really what's the end output?
How do we visualize that?
How do we communicate it to others?
And so I think the more that you constantly stay curious, the better off you are.
But there's certainly plenty of challenges that come up along the way.
Maybe a bit related to this.
There was an anonymous question that asked, have you had any issues with using large data
sets in R?
And do you have any favorite packages to deal with that?
Yeah.
So, you know, I think when it comes to that, R works for just about anything, at least
from what I've found.
There are certainly times where you're trying to do too much with it and it might be slow.
But generally speaking, you could load in massive files and manipulate all of it and
then output it to some small table.
I think that SQL is kind of the natural progression to larger and larger data.
That could be, you know, a million different things, or you could view that in a million
different ways.
But finding some way to store the data and then to pull some level of calculation without
pulling the full thing, that's kind of the best solution.
The best solution.
So dbplyr is kind of the go-to, at least for me.
I like writing in R more than I like writing SQL, even though I do totally value SQL and
I think it's a valuable skill.
I just love tidyverse and R packages.
Thank you.
Saul, I see you just asked a question around metrics for success.
Do you want to add a little bit of context there?
Or I can just ask.
The question is, what are metrics that Mastercard uses to measure success or impact?
I think that's a great question.
It's something that I think about often.
I don't know that we have a perfect solution for that.
You know, I think if you are generating revenue, that's a super simple way to, you know,
kind of measure success.
Our group currently, you know, we are pursuing that, but when we got started, you know, that
wasn't part of what we were doing.
And so I think that that's really when it starts to get down to, you know, how much
are we communicating with clients?
How much are we communicating with stakeholders?
Are we helping them to do their jobs better or to have a better understanding of, you
know, data or the macro view?
And, you know, are we really enabling them to do better?
And so I think there's plenty of opportunities to kind of measure or to try and figure out,
you know, how do we view this as valuable?
But I think those are kind of the two avenues that I would kind of identify.
I know one of the examples you had shared with me was on, like, travel and sharing some
of those insights.
I guess taking that, like, success question a bit further, like, how would you measure
success for that project?
Yeah, so I think very early on, we kind of identified core themes.
And so we started with this idea of, you know, how do we come up with, you know, six or seven
themes that broadly we want to cover or that we want to have a view on?
And then how do we constantly kind of enhance it?
So if you were to look at our first projects or our first, you know, dashboards or reports,
we took a view or tried to come up with a view, and then we constantly just made it better.
So I don't know that we had any measure of success other than, you know, people telling
us that they liked it, they valued it, you know, they appreciated it.
But in terms of kind of measuring how well we're doing, I think it's certainly an area
that we could probably do some more exploring or thinking through.
Thank you.
And I just shared that link in the chat if you want to check out some of that work, too.
Seth, I see you asked a question in the chat.
Can I pass the mic over to you?
Yeah, thanks, Zach, for sharing a lot of these insights.
A lot of the discussion earlier was around, like, you know, kind of coding and things
of that nature.
How do you, I guess, how do you ensure that, like, your team is all kind of using, is up
to date, basically, like, you know, a lot of people have different varying levels of
skill with regard to coding or data science.
How do you guys kind of make sure that people are kind of in sync?
Yeah, no, I think that that's a great question.
And even for, you know, data scientists, so, like, for me, I'm very code first.
But a lot of people that we work with or that are part of our group, they work within Tableau.
And so even with Tableau, you know, the funny thing about it is there's, and I'm probably
kind of getting sidetracked with a different, maybe I'll mention that after, but there's
no easy way to make sure that everyone's on the same page or has the same code or has
the same understanding of code.
What's worked for us is trying to figure out, you know, how do we leverage each other's
skills, regardless of technologies.
And, you know, a great example is really Tableau.
So the economists will come up with these great views or these great dashboards, and
then I can take those and make them into code or find ways to visualize them differently,
put them into a public report.
And so I think it's really just gets down to communication, having an understanding
of skills, and then trying, you know, along the way to teach each other and to learn.
And so I guess the side portion that I was going to go off into was, under the hood,
Tableau is XML.
And so for a coder, like, I love trying to parse all of it and trying to understand,
like, what can I pull out of this?
Or, you know, how do I pull this color palette or things that are kind of more nerdy?
But it's, you know, finding ways to do what you love, even though it might not be with
the tool you love or the technology, you know, it's always kind of the path that I've taken.
Thanks.
Expanding on that a bit further, I see there was an anonymous question that says,
what are your thoughts on the no-code movement and AutoML?
Yeah, so I think at the end of the day,
there is value in no-code and people that don't code.
I guess from my perspective, the reason why I love coding is it offers unlimited possibilities.
So I think the main difference for me has always been,
if this solution doesn't do what I want it to do, is there any way that I can fix that?
Or am I kind of set with what is available?
And so for me, I love developing new things or trying to generate,
you know, different ways that we can do something.
And so that flexibility for me has always been super important.
But that being said, you know, there's a lot of value.
Like, I always go to Tableau as a great example, because dragging and dropping
and creating beautiful visualizations or decks, dashboards is super, super valuable.
And, yeah, you know, I think both are super valuable.
I've just always been very code-first because I like developing and, yeah.
Thanks, Zach.
One other anonymous question that came in was,
how do you balance your passion and personal interests
and business requirements when it comes to adopting tools and projects?
Yeah, you know, I think that that's another great question.
It's not always easy.
And, you know, you always have to find ways to have some level of balance between both.
And a good example is, so when I first started, we had, you know,
we had to really come up with a business plan and a way to communicate that.
And we wanted to do something kind of crazy or off the wall.
And so we used Prezi.
And it was a great, you know, it was a great presentation.
It was very fun. It was very interactive.
And then eventually I coded, you know, an HTML presentation.
But I think there's always a balance of, you know,
figuring out, like, what do we really need?
And is this the right solution?
And then at some point, the hope is always that you can really,
really leverage your skills because you're starting to produce, you know,
things that always can answer questions or can always satisfy some need.
But that certainly takes time.
And it certainly doesn't happen, you know, overnight.
But the more that you have kind of your passion and your work, the better.
And so I think the more that you kind of push that agenda
or trying to find ways to do what you love, the better off you are.
Your answer and just mentioning, like, presenting the business case
is making me think of something I had meant to ask earlier as well,
but around the Economics Institute in general.
Could you explain a bit more about what that is and how it serves as an innovation lab?
Yeah, absolutely.
So we're really a group of, you know, economists and data scientists.
And our job is to really come up with great stories and great insights.
And, you know, I think that we've always taken the view of trying to view things differently,
trying to find the hidden story or the thing that no one else, you know, is looking at.
And I think that when we look at the group as a whole,
what we're really talented at is constantly being in communication with,
you know, clients, stakeholders, really understanding what challenges
or things that they're going through,
and then finding ways to really explain what's going on.
How do they think about that?
How do they view it or come up with new ways to approach it?
And so I think, you know, the group as a whole is made up of a lot of very curious
and hardworking individuals.
And I think that that's really created kind of an environment where, you know,
we're constantly just trying to find cool things to show or communicate.
And then, you know, how do we help people to do what they do better?
And so.
Cool. I see Zorlu, I apologize if I'm pronouncing your name wrong,
that you asked a question that follows this as well.
But when you say, like, do really cool things or show cool things with data,
what are some of the most interesting insights that you've gotten so far
for projects you've worked on at MasterCard?
Yeah.
I would say it's, for the most part, it's all pretty interesting.
Sometimes, you know, as a data scientist, it's hard to keep up with
what all of the different views are or all of the interesting insights
that the group generates as a whole.
I would say for me, I've always enjoyed, you know,
really finding ways to visualize things.
So right now I'm trying to learn D3 because I just find it so cool.
And it's super difficult.
And it's not, you know, it's not coming easy.
But, you know, I think even within Tableau, you know, we have an economist,
I always look at her dashboards and I'm like, wow, this is like, this is so cool.
And, you know, I think it's really just trying to
find things that are interesting and that you would enjoy
or that you find cool and then, you know, communicating it.
But I guess, like, I don't know if there's a specific example.
Like, I would say the small business report,
there's things I find super cool in that.
There within the travel report, you know, there are things that I found super cool in that.
But, yeah, I don't know.
It's probably an answer.
There's so many things that are fun or cool to look at.
It's probably hard to kind of pick one.
In terms of the small business report, what does that show?
Or what is that?
Is that a visualization that you've got?
Yeah, so, you know, I think when you look at our public reports and even just,
you know, I can openly talk about kind of what's under the hood.
So, our public reports, for the most part, have always been built with our markdown.
And I think that we try to push it to the limits of what that can do.
But generally, it's a very easy framework to use.
It's a very easy framework to use.
You can constantly improve it.
And so, I think there's always this element of what it started with was really, you know,
analytics stuff, right?
Where it's very analytics heavy.
There's a very, you know, kind of standard view of color where we started to transition
to more elegance and design.
How do we create something that people are going to find visually appealing?
And so, I think that that's probably like my side gig is, you know, design.
I enjoy it.
And I think that, you know, we bring in a lot of visualizations that weren't built before.
So, things like video or pictures or, you know, graphics that are animated.
And so, I think it's just finding cool ways to show what you're trying to think through
or trying to communicate.
But I certainly kind of love when my graphics make the end cut as well.
So, yeah.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Just scrolling through to make sure I didn't miss questions from earlier.
I see Saul maybe had dropped off.
But asked the question earlier on, how would you advise people to learn topics like econometrics
having a limited statistics background?
That's a very good question.
So, what I've, you know, the one thing I've realized about economics is I thought I had
some level of background in it.
And then you meet a bunch of smart economists and you realize you really don't know much.
And so, I think at the end of the day, there's so much that you can always learn.
Econometrics is not super straightforward is probably the blunt answer.
It's complex.
There's lots of things that need to be considered or treated for.
And I think that I'm constantly learning about it or trying to understand it.
But I don't know that I have any tips for here's great references or, you know, a lot
of this stuff I kind of learned on the job and over time.
And so, yeah.
Thank you.
Going back to that last question a little bit.
I know you said you like design and it's great when sometimes your visualizations are the
ones put out there.
How do you kind of test design and think about like what appeals to people and what's going
to maybe get catch people's attention the most?
Yeah, I think just trying new things is kind of the fun part about design is there's always
some way that you could show it differently.
And there's always a different color palette or a different font or a different size of
your header.
And, you know, I think all of those things kind of come together to create an output.
And so the easiest way to play around with design is just kind of, I guess, like design
is mostly at least for, you know, web frameworks.
It's just having fun with, you know, CSS and JavaScript and kind of just diving in, changing
around, you know, backgrounds or like we started with very, very bold and fluorescent colors.
And then we realized, well, maybe not everyone likes looking at something so, you know, intense.
And, you know, how do we make that maybe a bit more easy on the eyes, I guess.
And, you know, how do we change a color palette to really show what we're trying to visualize?
And so I think all of those things are super fun to play around with.
And yeah, just kind of getting in there and changing everything.
I know you said, we've said already too, but that Brooklyn said you want this to be a place of
innovation and that there's been reports that were more of static text and PDS, which you're
trying to make cooler.
I'm just wondering, like, is there an example of a report that you've done that for internally
or what kinds of reports for those?
Yeah.
So, you know, I think that one of the big things that Griffin and I are always on the same page
about was interactivity.
So how do we increase someone's ability to really play around with it or, you know, to
really understand by kind of seeing the numbers along the way.
And so I think most of our reports have really been designed around that.
And we try to stay away from PowerPoint unless we're presenting something kind of to the
business side.
We try to stay away from, you know, kind of static outputs.
But that being said, you know, with our public reports, we still come out with PDS that are
gorgeous as well.
You know, so I think there's always that level of you're never probably going to get rid of
it all and not everything can be interactive.
But for the most part, we've made most of our outputs interactive, which is fun, you
know, for me and I think for just the team as a whole.
Cool.
Thank you.
I'm scrolling through to make sure I haven't missed any questions right now, but just want
to open up the floor to anybody if you want to jump in and ask anything live too.
So in Rachel's blurb about you before the meeting, she said you're going to talk a little
bit about writing a job description for tidy model engineers.
I'd love to hear about it.
I hate writing job descriptions and I'm writing some right now.
Yeah, no.
So I think even with, you know, the way that we approach titles or what we're trying to
what we're trying to look for, it's very much an experiment.
I think the main driving factor of that was we wanted something different that really
relate to the R community.
I think a lot of our code is in R currently and we're constantly trying to find ways to
increase that portion of the business.
So I think the main driving factor of that role is just that we wanted someone that felt
that they were really talented with a specific skill to apply and to be found.
I think that that's always something that you find with data science, right?
You post a data science role and that could mean a billion things.
And that's what's always difficult about data sciences.
It covers so much that if you don't be, or if you can't find a way, that was bad English.
If you can't find a way to be really specific about what you're looking for, you're probably
just going to attract a lot of people, but not as many people that are focused on what
you're focused on or trying to accomplish.
Thanks, Zach.
Is there a question that you would like to ask to the audience?
I didn't prepare you for that, but I'm throwing it on you.
I think that's, I mean, I just be interested like what everyone does, like what they enjoy.
Do you like coding?
Do you not like coding?
Anyone that wants to kind of introduce themselves just on a personal level,
that would be really cool.
Thank you for everyone that has asked questions.
I do have perhaps a related question, but I'm happy to introduce myself as well.
My name is Seth.
I enjoy long walks on the beach since I live in Southern California, but I am, I work for
Concert AI, which is a real world data company.
We work in basically cancer analytics to kind of sum it up.
I'm curious because I've been a part of the data science community for a long time, but
I've been a part of this wonderful little meetup for some time now, and we talk a lot
about like Python and R, and those are generally our data science tools.
But I'm curious, and this also could be for you, Zach, or for anybody else, is what are
people's thoughts on limiting or minimizing use of both languages?
So let's say you minimize Python and minimize R and just try to consolidate the team on one.
My personal opinion is that there's technical debt that accrues as more languages you apply,
because people obviously are comfortable in one or the other, but I'd love to hear what
other people's thoughts are on that.
Yeah, so I would be curious to hear everyone's thoughts as well, and maybe I'll just kind
of quickly, I think it's a great question, and I'd agree that there's some level of the
more technologies that you use or the more factors that you have in what makes up a data
science team.
Sometimes it could be hard, but I also have the sense that there's a lot of value in both
or multiple, and the more that you can find ways to leverage it, the better.
But I think it's just a great question, so I'd be curious if anyone wants to weigh in
as well.
I see Brian's-
I'll jump in.
Hi, I'm Brian Butler.
I manage the small data science team at Bennekin.
I am a fan of both.
In fact, my junior data scientist, before he was started with me, he was mostly R, and
then he converted all to Python, and now he's doing all Python.
But I'm like, these are tools.
I think about a carpenter.
How many nail guns do they have?
How many different saws do they have?
It's the same thing.
If I want to bang out a quick analysis, I'm going to do it in R.
I can load the data in, I can write two lines of code, and I've got a ggplot that's interactive
and everything else, and boom, I can solve that question pretty easily.
Now, at the same time as if I'm going to do some serious natural language processing or
some deep learning, I'm going to switch gears.
But the best part of it is what I like doing is wrapping Python into R Markdown and presenting
through these interactive apps that you can use with Plotly and R and everything else,
and then you wrap the base model of Python around it.
And so I just think you're not going to be skilled at every tool you use, but the more
tools you have, you'll be more effective because you'll find the right one for the
right job.
I think that's a great answer.
I see Floris and Rick are both unmuted, so I take that as raising hands.
Oh, sorry.
You go ahead, Floris.
Oh, okay.
Hello.
My name is Floris Vos, I'm from the Netherlands.
Actually, first time I joined this group.
But I think it's a great question, and actually the same applies for packages within R, because
you have so many packages.
You could create a package, but you don't want to have too many packages, and you don't
want to have too many packages.
Because you have so many packages, you could restrict yourself to all kinds of packages.
Actually, I just heard dplyr, I'm very much in front of data table, to be honest, but
I use them both, and I see that both deliver a lot of value.
For us, how we use it is we just have good documentation, how to use the packages, how
to do your coding, so we can always take over work from each other.
I think the same applies for using Python R, but even Julia or Go, if you add it to
your markdown, can be used as long as you just document it well.
I actually love that.
Yeah, I think that documentation and having an understanding of how to use something is
always something that's worth solving for.
Yeah, I really like that answer, because I would love to go into an R markdown and see
like 20 different languages and find ways to get value out of all of them.
That'd just be kind of fun.
That's why I really like that answer.
Yeah, just one addition, for the whole documentation, we use actually the bookdown.
Actually, the bookdown, I think it's also from...
I never can pronounce his name, to be honest, but it's amazing.
So we have many of those bookdowns where you just say, well, like Hadley Accurate is the
R for data science.
It's really great to do your documentation for your whole team, and we publish it on
a web server.
Easy to search for all your style guides for everything you have.
Yeah, that's amazing.
I like it.
I would also echo the sentiment of using lots of different tools.
And I'm just teaching a data science full three-month boot camp kind of course at the
moment, and we just wrapped up a lot of what's going to be R, and we're going to move on
to Python next week.
And I told the students right from the outset that we're going to be using both R and Python.
And I try to always highlight why we're doing this in R.
All the statistics was in R.
Data viz was all in R.
Data munging was all in R.
Reporting was all in R.
And when we move on to Python, we'll be doing the deep learning and machine learning, things
like that, inside of Python.
But I'm not going to make them do statistics in Python.
I don't think it's worthwhile.
And I don't think it's nice to do data munging in Python either.
So they have nice tools to do that also in R.
So I'll show them some of it, but they're not going to be at the same level in all skills
in both of them.
So I like the idea of use the tools that you got and use the diversity that you got.
Instead of trying to do an us versus them, no, we've got to do everything in this package
or everything in this language.
And everybody on that side is wrong kind of sentiment, I think, is something that I don't
try to reflect in my work and give to my students either.
So I like that idea of kind of using all the resources you have available to you.
But when I talk to people on the ground who are not just training, but actually working
in companies and consulting, they say, well, actually, what really happens is that you
can use R, but the IT department is not going to support you in anything.
But if you use Python, at least they'll take a look at your scripts and they make you some
critique and try and help you understand what's going wrong.
So the support that they get from other departments of the company also determines what they're
actually going to use in the end.
So there's that Paco component that is not as idealistic, I think.
No, I think that that's that's accurate.
I think at the end of the day, that that kind of gets back to sometimes you have systems
and that's what you got to use, even if there's a better solution.
And so I think that's always, you know, on the table or part of it.
And I think the only way that you can get kind of people to convert or to see your side
of it is just to create something cool.
I think at least that's worked for me is if you can show someone something cool, then
it's it's kind of easier to say, yeah, this is why I use this or yeah.
And so I guess like that's the it's always part of the game.
And I find that the more you can make it fun or interesting is always the easiest way to
turn.
Thanks for all of that.
If everybody can I add context to this question?
Yeah, OK, I would say thank you for asking that question and seem to fire everyone up.
Yeah, I know.
I should have asked it way sooner.
I apologize.
So the and this is great.
So I don't disagree with everybody.
I think that obviously all of these tools have a place in everything.
So sometimes Python, especially from a data engineering perspective, can be a little bit
Python, especially from a data engineering perspective.
That's what people are using for for ingestion for ETL.
And so it's really helpful to have that tool set.
And generally, you'll always have that tool set.
And for our first variety of purposes, what's interesting is what I see from like an industry
perspective is that there's also a component that technical debt that you accrue when people
are using multiple languages is that there are systems that need to support those languages.
Right.
So as Rick pointed, sometimes it's Python and that's what they're supporting.
Sometimes it's R, sometimes it's both.
But when you have more systems or languages you need to support, there's more libraries,
there's more whatever.
All of that plays a technical debt on whatever the IT system, whatever the platform system.
So generally, you don't want to have 20 languages.
You want to limit it.
And so Python and R is fine.
But there's also a technical debt towards expertise, towards like if I'm if I only know
how to do it in SQL and I only do it in SQL, but another team is doing it in Python and
another team is doing it in R, right, you now have three different ways that you're
approaching perhaps the same problem.
And people only want to then deal with it in the language that they're most familiar
with.
And so from a broader perspective, when you're trying to scale, like it might be helpful
to say, look, I know you know how to do it in SQL, but learning it in R or doing it in
Python or whatever the choice would be, may have value for the company as it scales,
because once that person leaves or if they go on vacation or something, someone else
can then pick it up.
And I think Flora said documenting it appropriately is great.
And I 100% agree.
But I guess that's just the context behind the question.
I'm not trying to say that we should pick one language or another.
But I guess, you know.
Maybe if I can jump in on one quick comment about that.
One of the things that I noticed, we were writing the book this past year, the R and
Python for Modern Data Science.
And we kind of almost had a hard time finding nice use cases.
And I got some examples from colleagues on Twitter.
But I realized that, you know, we organized the book in terms of you choose R or Python
dependent on the type of data that you're working on.
So if it's time series or unstructured or geospatial, there's different package ecosystems
that are well suited in each of the languages.
And some of them are better than others.
Like spaCy is fantastic for NLP.
I wouldn't necessarily recommend, although there's fantastic things for NLP in R, but
spaCy is really kind of dominating that scene in Python.
And so we kind of said, you know, think about the data structure, the format of the data,
and the kind of research problem that you're dealing with.
And then in the case study, we were kind of struggling to find a really nice flow, like
really nice example.
And we got something really nice at the end, I think.
But it also occurred to me that one of the reasons people end up using R and Python that
I see actually in reality with my students that are working in research is that they
come into a laboratory and they inherit a really terrible Python script that they cannot
make heads or tails out of it, but the thing works.
And there's no reason to reinvent the wheel.
But they want to wrap it in R because they can modify and do things with it and expand
it in R.
So instead of learning, and these are like crazy long and super complicated scripts that
I guarantee are much, much easier in R, but they don't have the time to translate that
all to R.
So they stick with it, and then they just kind of have to deal with a Python script.
So I think sometimes people use R and Python, not because idealistic reasons, not because
they don't want to, but because they're stuck with it.
Like they have to use this Python script or this R script because somebody wrote it and
dumped it on their shoulders.
100%, that's accurate.
Yeah, and I was just going to say, you know, I think it's a super interesting question
because it's super applicable and at every step of scale, that complexity or that ease
has to be kind of addressed.
And so it's almost like we know that that's a topic.
We know that people are going to use both.
How do we really prepare for that or address it?
And I think like RStudio probably has the best answer for it, or they're working on
it, one of the two.
But I think that it's certainly possible that you're building without that full circle view
of it, right?
Like I know that there's a lot of people developing Python that I don't know and probably
vice versa.
And so, yeah, it's hard to have kind of a perfect solution for all of it, but I think
it's an interesting question.
One thing that I found really useful was that I have not restricted languages on my teams
and I see certain people, because of their backgrounds, they were either more comfortable
with one or the other, which was nice because it allowed for a lot of cross-training.
But then if people were unsure about a problem, there were even more ways to try to come to
an answer and understanding from a different approach, whether it Python or R or different
packages, was really good and thought-provoking and found more errors and got better answers
in the end.
There is definitely stress from having more languages, but I think it's worth it.
I like that.
Yeah, and I think, like, the one thing that you just said was, you know, there's almost
some stress from that.
And I think Seth asked an earlier question about, you know, how do people stay up to
date on languages?
And so I think that that's one of the hard things as well, is like, if you're constantly
doing something other than that, how do you stay up to date on what's going on or what's
important?
But I love that there's multiple ways to answer that.
And like, it offers more capabilities to do that, because that's really, really valuable.
And so I think that that's awesome.
Yeah, all good conversation.
Hi, this is Bala.
I just want to add one thing, Seth.
So right now, if you restrict, so both Python and R right now has so much maturity and it's
open source, right?
A lot of packages are being, you know, contributed.
For most of the standard use cases, you get packages which are wrapper around the package
which is done in Python.
So if there is a spaCy package for NLP in Python, there is a spaCy R, which is a wrapper
which basically runs the same package in the R environment.
So if it is a generic use case, which, you know, is being used across multiple industries,
then you really don't have that problem.
Like, oh, my developer have, it's much easier to migrate because the speed to market is
what you, as a data scientist, you would like, as a data team, you would like to do.
So a problem is given, you want to solve it as quick as possible.
And if you're taking, or if you're adding red tape saying like, oh, you can't use Python
or you can't use R, you're naturally, you know, creating blockheads.
So I would say you should allow your team to explore in whichever language which is
comfortable for them.
But again, when they design, just think about like, are there wrappers?
Can I integrate, you know, whatever I've done so that it is future proofed?
Just in case.
Yeah.
And to be clear, I don't have any restrictions.
I thought it was an interesting thought experiment before everyone spears me and cancels me or
whatever.
But yeah.
Thank you, Sepp.
I'd love for you to introduce your cat as well over there.
Can I add one thing?
And I'm completely, I agree with you as Sepp.
And then you need to restrict that when you're technical.
That's difficult to keep everything up and running.
Just also for Rick, we have a very specific use case where we actually needed to use Python.
There was a package in R in 3.6 to connect to the SAP systems and to extract data.
That one was not maintained anymore by the maintainer from Australia.
SAP is maintaining a Python package.
So now we are using a Python package to get the stuff in R, use reticulate to get it in
R and manipulate it in R again.
So now we have to have them both.
But we have a very strict distinction between the functionality.
One is importing the data.
The other one is building your model and creating your visualizations.
I like that.
It's a really nice example.
But you kind of got stuck with it.
And this is, her name is Excel, actually.
I'm kidding.
No, her name is Zoe.
Her name is Zoe.
Bruno said, bring all the cats next week.
Well, thank you all so much for a lively discussion.
I just want to make sure I didn't cut off any final questions there.
I know we're a little bit over, but thank you so much for joining today.
And Zach, thanks so much for sharing your insights with the group.
Just a quick question for you, Zach.
If people have follow-up questions, is the best way to get in touch with you LinkedIn
or Twitter, or what do you prefer?
Yeah, no, LinkedIn works great.
And thanks so much for all the fun.
I had a lot of fun.
So thanks for spending some time with me.
And thank you so much for organizing.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
And I know I haven't been saying this lately, like who are the next speakers?
And I don't mean to be keeping it a secret.
So same time, same place next week.
We'll be joined by Kobe Abayomi, who's a vice president of data science at
Warner Music Group as well.
So thank you all for joining and hope to see you next week too.
Bye.